Now I hope that you can't wait to calculate the mean squared error from the previous sell up here.
We already know what the lowest cost theta zero and theta one parameters are for our regression.
And this is thanks to the socket learn package.
But let's work out what the mean square area actually is for these two values.
And for that we're going to need our estimated y values.
Looking at our equation up here we need to calculate r y hat.
What's this y hat equal to well our y hat is gonna be equal to theta 0 plus theta one times x.
This is the equation that underlines our linear regression in this case our y hat is based on the intercept
plus the slope.
Times are X values.
Let's translate that to Python code so create a variable called Y underscore that.
And I'm gonna set it equal to our theta zero value which was this one here.
I'm going to copy this.
Come down here.
Paste it in at a plus sign.
Take the theta one value.
Copy and paste it in and then write.
Times X on the five.
This after all are all the X's in our dataset.
And that way we can calculate all the predicted values in our dataset.
Let's print these out for good measure.
So let's say print and then the string estimated values y underscore a hat.
Colon comma Y underscore.
Let me hit shift enter and let's see what these look like.
So here they are.
These are all the predicted values now.
One thing that you can do is if you don't want this first value here on the same line as your string
what you can do is you can come in here with a string is and insert a special character.
The new line character.
So that's backslash and then.
And when I hit shift enter now that zero point nine six nine will move to a new line backslash and it's
like a special character for hitting return on your keyboard.
So how do these predicted values compared to our actual values.
Let's print those out as well.
So as a print and then write in comparison the actual y values are backslash and comma Y underscore
five.
These are actual values.
There we go.
Ideally we want these estimated values to be as close to these actual values as possible.
And I'm looking at this.
They're actually not too far off.
This is not too bad.
Given this theta zero and this theta one.
So now that we know how to calculate our y had values let's work out the mean square error of the regression.
And I think this actually makes a really good challenge.
So can you write a python function that takes two inputs Y and Y hat and returns the means squared error
and after you've done that after you've written this M S E function can you call this function and print
out the means quit error with the Y had calculated a above so feet in this Y had value into your MSE
function and print out what the mean squared error is.
Now remember the means quit error equation looks like this.
We've got that formula in latex notation it's all you need to do is translate it into Python code and
look up what code to use for that pesky some Haitian symbol right here.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and try this on your own
all right.
Ready.
So I hope you figure this out.
Now in terms of the solution.
I'm not just going to show you one solution.
I'm going to show you three different ways that you can implement this because there's actually many
ways you can skin a cat as they say.
So while you have the video pause then were solving the challenge.
How is busy looking up possible uses for all that cat skin.
And the best one I came across was a Japanese instrument called Shami shamisen.
Apparently the drum on this banjo was actually traditionally made from from cat skin.
So uh there's your random fact of the day if you've come across any other uses do let me know in the
comments section.
The python code that you will have written will probably look something like this.
You can have D F and this E and then for the parameters you'll have why and say why had colon at the
first possible approach would look something like this.
You might have a variable say call it MSE calc and that would have been equal to 1 divided by 7 because
we've got seven data points and you multiply that by the sum.
This is an inbuilt python function.
Some parentheses and then inside the some you'll have another set of parentheses f there you'll have
Y minus Y underscore had the power of two.
So times times two.
And because this function needs an output you would return the results of your calculation.
So MSE on a score calc and this is one possible way to do it.
Let me call this function and print out the means quit error of y hat that we calculate it.
So I'll be MSE y underscore five because these are the actual y values and then supply y hat that we
calculated a few cells above the make shift and to see what we get we get zero point nine five approximately.
Now there is one improvement that we can make to this function.
So this one divided by seven will probably be bothering you a little bit because it's hardcoded and
it would only work or calculate the mean squared error correctly.
If we had seven data points if we had eight or nine then the mean square error formula wouldn't be apt
anymore wouldn't be correcting well with this python code.
So in a comment the sound.
But I'm going to copy and paste it below.
And what I want to do is I'm going to replace this one divided by seven with some different code.
I'm going to say one divided by why don't size why not size will return the length or the number of
samples that are fed in to the place holder for our y values.
So this will also work.
Let me shift enter on this cell and the one below to prove just that writing the code this way makes
the MSE function much more general because it figures out the number of samples inside of the function.
It doesn't have to be supplied as an extra parameter and it's not hardcoded in the instructions themselves.
So this is already quite nice but there is another way you could have done this as well maybe you did
a bit of googling and you figured out that num pi actually has a function called average and this does
both the summation and the dividing by the number of samples for us.
So let's see what this would look like.
This would be MSE that calc is equal to and p dot average parentheses and then it needs two things.
It needs the function itself that it's averaging and if it should be averaging the rows the columns
or the whole thing.
So first things first the function its averaging would be Y minus Y on a score had the power of two
and the way to tell it whether it should average the rows or the columns would be by supplying the Axis
arguments so axis equals zero sums up the rows instead of both the rows and columns which is not what
we want.
So they had shift enter on this and then run the cell below again we can see that this works as well.
But just because we've printed out a mean square error in this cell here doesn't mean it's correct.
So let's check it against an inbuilt function from cyclone.
So we wrap this in a print statement right.
Print and then the string
manually calculate MSE is colon and then we have our MSE function in here to use the inbuilt function
then inbuilt means quit error function from cyclone.
We're gonna have to import it.
To have to scroll to the very top and then here we're gonna add another input statement going to see
from ASCII learn dot metrics lowercase import mean underscore squared underscore error.
Sorry sorry.
I hope you're not too upset and will forgive me that I made you do all this work even though there is
an inbuilt function for this already let's uh let's call this mean square error function with both our
manually calculated y hat as well as from the output of the regression directly.
So where we were adding our print statement let's add another one let's add print MSE
regression using manual calc is and then comma mean on the school squared underscore error and it will
supply two inputs why on a score five are actual y values and why and its cohort which we've calculated
above just
and now let me copy this line and paste it below.
And this one will read and see regression is mean squint era and instead of our manually calculated
one we can use rigour don't predict parentheses x on a school five and when do we hit shift enter.
We see that indeed all the outputs agree with one another are manually calculated means quit error is
the same as what we get from the machine learning package.
So we've dissected and implemented this cost function correctly.
Brilliant.
Now it's time to plot our cost function and visualize it we'll do that in the next lesson.
I'll see you there.